---
title: "Summary: Nights to Brights"
slug: summary-nights-to-brights
summary: "It's the first weekly summary for the Wire Haiku Patreon!"
---

Here's the very first weekly summary for the Wire Haiku Patreon! 

**Posts for the week starting 27 November 2022:**

- [Theme: Christmas](/posts/2022/12/theme-christmas/) 2 December 2022
- [In and Around](/posts/2022/11/in-and-around/) 30 November 2022
- [Turning Down](/posts/2022/11/turning-down/) 28 November 2022

This week, we ended our **[nights][1]** theme and transitioned to the shiny new theme of **[Christmas][2]**. 
Surprisingly, I found myself spending a lot of the "nights" theme focusing on light — street lights, moonlight, reflections, etc. — instead of focusing on the darkness as I originally thought I would.
It was still quite fun, but if we ever do another "dark" theme I might try to focus on the actual darkness next time.

Then, I set the table for December. 
After one more week of regular haikus and two weeks of "best-of" retrospectives (including bonus content for patrons), I'll be taking a two-week hiatus and returning in January. 
I only started this website in July, but it already feels like I've been on such an amazing journey with you all, and I can't wait to start all over again in the new year.

Finally, I started a Patreon! 
Tomorrow will be the first patron-exclusive [tanka][3] poem I'll ever post. 
It's super exciting and I hope I can make these additional posts worth your time and money.
If you are a supporter of the [Patreon][4], thank you!
If not, that's absolutely fine as well.
I'll still be posting three times a week and keeping it free for everyone.

Thank you so much for reading **Wire Haiku**, and I'll see you next time.

[1]: /theme/nights/
[2]: /theme/christmas/
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanka
[4]: https://www.patreon.com/wirehaiku
